I am Bruno Grossi and today I am going to
present Metarfly, a
photoresponsive panel.
This product is the result of the
second inter-university competition for
initiation in research,
jointly awarded by the Faculty of
Engineering of the Universidad del
Desarrollo and the Faculty of Design of the
Universidad Adolfo Iváñez.
Here we use the principle of
kirigami, that is, rational cuts
on a flat sheet that allow
changing its three-dimensional topology.
In our case we use nitinol, a
shape memory nickel-titanium alloy, as a passive actuator that
responds to temperature without the need
for motors or electronics.
The result is a system that is easily
replicable through digital manufacturing
with smart in-plane applications
or adaptive solar panels that
operate without energy expenditure.
Its design is inspired by
butterflies, which modify the degree
of wing unfolding in order to
control their thermoregulation.
I want to highlight the importance of these
competitions that bring together different
universities and
multidisciplinary teams that will help us
design the future.